the temperature of our environment is
constantly changing so what happens to
our body's temperature to investigate
Jim is being fitted with a special air
probe it's connected to a digital
thermometer and measures his internal or
core temperature it's just over 36
Celsius a similar device measures the
temperature of his skin his skin
temperature is lower at the moment it's
just over 30 Celsius put him in a room
where the temperature is a sweltering 40
Celsius and we'll see what happens
viewed through a thermal imager cold
spots like his hands and nose show up as
blue or black the warm surroundings are
orange in yellow the ear and skin probes
are connected up then it's time to sit
back and relax it doesn't take long for
Jim's skin temperature to increase after
just four minutes it's already 35
Celsius and will keep on rising but deep
inside
Jim's core temperature remains more
steady it's risen by just one degree
this water bath is icy cold what do you
think will happen to the temperature of
the skin on Jim's arm
skin temperature can vary over a wide
range depending on its environment
but your core temperature hardly varies
at all to stay healthy it should be
between 36 and 38 degrees C this time
our subject is sitting in a cold room
it's less than 10 Celsius a large fan
blowing out cold air will cool him down
even more
when Jim is cold his skin looks pale in
color and there's no sign of sweat
his skin temperature begins to fall and
it isn't long before he begins to shiver
when it's cold blood vessels in your
skin constrict so less heat is lost from
the blood no sweat is produced but your
hair stands on end giving you goosebumps
despite the cold Jim keeps warm inside
his core temperature is still 36 Celsius
how did goosebumps and shivering help
keep his core temperature steady